We worked with template literals already,
the idea here is that you could have some variable or some expression that produces a result that
can be output in the string and then you might have your template literal where you say my name is and
instead of having to concatenate strings with a plus which can be very cumbersome for long strings, you
can use the ${} notation here to just inject any valid Javascript expression,
so any expression that yields a value which can be output as a string.
Here I'm referring to the name constant
but we could also be calling a function, if we had a getName function here that returns something we
can output or do whatever you want,
only important thing is it has to be an expression,
you can't put an if statement in there for example but that's what you already knew,
that's the template literal syntax and that can be really useful.
Now you can do even more with it than just output simple strings like this,
you can create so-called tagged templates. A tag
template is in the end a function that works together with a template literal.
It all starts by creating a function,
for example product description
and this will make more sense in a second,
a regular function which expects let's say three arguments and I'll come back to why three and what each
argument holds in a second.
Of course you can name all these arguments or parameters however you want but let's name the first one
strings here,
the second one
product name and the third one product price. Now
in here, I'll just return
this is a product,
nothing fancy, just a string.
Now we can use that and for example create a constant, product output and there, we add product description
but we don't call it like this,
instead we do something which looks super strange at first,
we add a template literal right after our function name.
So there are no parentheses anywhere,
we don't pass that as an argument to that function,
we have our function name and after that, two back ticks and that's a syntax we haven't seen before.
Behind the scenes, Javascript will call this function and kind of pass in this template literal but not just
like this as a single string but it will actually split it up into
for example three arguments here and send these into the function.
Now the amount of arguments it sends in actually depends on your template literal.
So here we could have this product and then for example parentheses which are part of the string,
no special syntax, then for example an injected expression here where we have the product name and
for that, let's add a new constant here, prod name Javascript course and refer to that here in our template
literal interpolation syntax here, is and then for example the price, so here let's have the prod price
and have 29.99 here and then insert this here.
So it's a regular template here in the end if we ignore the function name in front of it where we inject
or interpolate two pieces of information into our otherwise normal string,
the strange thing here is that we have that function name in front of it.
Now I said that Javascript would call this function for us and pass this in but not as a single argument
but actually as three arguments.
Well, that will make more sense if we start outputting this, let's console log product output here,
product output and see what this yields us, what this function actually does. If we save that and we reload,
we see this is a product.
So what we see here is actually what this function returns,
so it looks like this function was called and the result of the function is stored in this constant.
OK so
let's see what happens inside of the function and what we actually receive as arguments here. For that,
we can of course console log strings, console log the product name here, so our second argument and console
log the product price,
our third argument. All of that gets logged here and with that let's save it and reload
and now we see something interesting,
now what we see here are these three outputs,
these are from the lines 9, 10 and 11 which are just these three lines in the function. Now for
strings, we see we're getting an array. We're getting an array which consists of three elements where
each element is a string
and the interesting thing here is in the end these three elements make up all the text we have down
there in this template literal without our dynamic parts,
so without the interpolated or the injected segments you could say. This product, blank opening parentheses,
this is our first element, then between the first interpolated element and the second one, we have a closing
parentheses, whitespace is whitespace and that's exactly our second element here in this array.
And then after our second interpolated value or segment here, we got a dot which is also a regular
string and therefore our third element in this array is is just that dot.
So in the end, what this function does or what Javascript does with this special syntax here is it calls
this function here product description and the first argument of that function always is an array of
string segments which are taken from your template literal and which represent the string parts between
your dynamic segments.
Now your dynamic segments and of course here I should output this correctly now that I see it, your dynamic
segments are passed in as additional arguments into that function in the order they appear in here in
the template literal. So that's why, if I reload again, we see Javascript course and the price here. We
see that here because these are our arguments, 2 and 3, in this function and Javascript simply goes through your
template literal, takes all non-dynamic parts and puts them into this first argument which is an array
and then takes the dynamic parts and adds them in the right order as argument values to this function. Now
that hopefully makes sense,
the obvious question is, why would we use that? Where can this be useful? Tagged templates can be useful
if you have a scenario where you conveniently want to create some output, could be a string but could
be something totally different as well, based on some string input, for example you could be using that
to take some input here, some input text and convert this to a different text where you replace some
values, for example here we could check if product price is greater than 20 and if it is, then we
set some variable which I introduced in this function, price category maybe, to cheap here
and if the price is greater than 20, we set price category to fair.
Now we could output our string down there by constructing a new template literal for example and then
by injecting strings,
the first segment of our strings here which is the first segment of that template
literal string here, thereafter the unchanged product name, thereafter the second segment of our strings
which is this segment
but then instead of the original price, we insert the price category here and then we insert the last
piece of our original string.
So now we're outputting a fully dynamic string, a dynamically generated string where we swap a value
with some included logic and especially if you for example have a more complex logic for encoding a
numeric price into a category as we're doing it here, then you might be better off using such a tagged
template function here instead of using a ternary expression down there for example, which would take
up a lot of space and could quickly be unreadable or hard to read at least.
So that would be a scenario where such a tagged template can save you time and lead to a better, more readable
output because you can run your more complex logic in there and then just output the updated string
down there in the end.
So if we for example run this, we get this product is fair,
we could of course also say fairly priced here and there, pretty cheap regarding its price, something
like that
and if we do that, you'll see here we got is fairly priced. So that's how you can work with that
and of course there are many things you can do,
you're also not forced to return a string here. Whilst that is a possibility, you could also return
an object here with the name which is product name and the price which is product price
and now you would have a function that simply converts a string into an object. It throws away the string
parts you got and then just gives you the data that you dynamically injected there. If you needed that
for whatever reason, you could do that and you would be getting an object without any errors because you're
not forced to return a string in a tagged template.